Let's now look at how Glue crawlers work.
In the AWS Glue Console, under the Crawlers section,
you'll see any crawlers that were created.
If you click on the crawler name, it takes you to the Crawler Detail console.
What you see on this slide is the resulting crawler details of the AuroraStack
and from the Glue stack that we'll build in the next module.
You can see the crawler name, the Aurora database name,
the Glue Service role, the Include path,
and the Glue connection.
The Data store connection information was populated by the AuroraStack,
which is a JDBC connection type.
There are four ways you can populate the Glue Data Catalog,
but we're going to focus on the best way to do this,
by cataloging tables with a crawler.
The AWS Glue Data Catalog contains references to data that is used as
sources and targets of your ETL jobs in AWS Glue.
Catalog data is an index to the location,
schema, and runtime metrics of your data.
You use the information in the data catalog to create and monitor your ETL jobs.
Typically, you run a crawler to take inventory of the data in your data stores.
A crawler first runs any customer classifiers you choose
to infer the schema of the data from.
They run in the order that you specify.
If no custom classifiers match your data schema,
built-in classifiers try to recognize the schema.
The crawler connects to the data store,
some data stores require connection properties for crawler access.
The inferred schema is created for your data.
The crawler writes metadata to the data catalog.
A table definition contains metadata about the data in your data store.
The table is written to a database,
which is a container of tables in the data catalog.
Once your data store is in the Glue Data Catalog,
crawlers will still keep that data in sync with any changes
performed on the underlying data store.
The title of this section is borrowed from Gartner,
Data Catalogs are the New Black in Data Management and Analytics.
The reason Gartner could make such a bold claim is this,
it is a testament on how businesses are embracing data lakes,
where data catalogs provide the capacity to scale beyond narrow use case
requirements in order to support strategic data and analytics needs by
ensuring they're connected to the broader enterprise metadata management
and information governance programs.
Let's look at the almighty Glue Data Catalog and
some of its benefits and features.
Each AWS account has one AWS Glue Data Catalog.
It provides a uniform repository where disparate systems can store and
find metadata to keep track of data in data silos,
and use that metadata to query and transform the data.
The AWS Glue Data Catalog is your fully-managed persistent metadata store.
It lets you store, annotate, and share metadata in the AWS cloud.
In the AWS Glue Console, you can search and filter lists of Glue objects.
AWS Glue uses the JDBC protocol to access several types of data stores.
When you set up crawlers to scan data,
classifications are used and store the
classification metadata in the Glue catalog.
From there, it can be used to guide ETL operations.
Glue crawlers are one of my favorite Glue features.
It's like having you very own time machine,
they remember, ooh,
or keep versions of every iteration of every change made to
the underlying datasets automatically.
This enables you to easily spot when changes are made,
and, if necessary, role back to what versions you prefer,
as well as being able to restore older versions.
Let's now look at Glue's databases and tables.
This is a screenshot of the sakila database that we created with
our third-party SQL client in the last module.
Here it's shown in the Glue Data Catalog.
To create a new database in the Glue Console,
choose Add database, and provide a name and description.
A database in the AWS Glue Data Catalog is a container that holds tables.
You use databases to organize your tables into separate categories.
When you define a table in AWS Glue,
you also specify the value of a classification field.
Your database can contain tables that define data
from many different data stores.
The list of tables in a database in the Glue Data Catalog also shows
you a pointer to the location of each data store that the table
definition represents as metadata only.
In the next section,
we'll quickly overview how to prepare your raw data for downstream consumption,
and some of the cost savings associated with that, and how and why to use DynamicFrames.